Welcome to Path Creator.

https://github.com/papasmurf6768/Cisco_PathCreator

Authors: Chris Savoca, Tom Bruzek

Path Creator is a tool that can be used to test every state transition in the ticketing management process.  It will take in the list of ticket states and their next states from a .csv file and create a set of paths from the logical starting ticket state to a logical end ticket state that consists of every possible ticket state transition at least once.  It then saves these paths to another .csv file for easy copying/pasting.

How To Use:

1. Download the .zip file. It contains the compiled executable, a few required .dll files, and a demo .csv
2. Make sure that any files you wish to create paths for are located in the same directory as the executable
3. Run the executable
4. When prompted, enter the filename of your .csv file, including the file extension (.csv) and hit enter
5. When prompted, enter the name of the logical starting state for any tickets and hit enter. (Make sure this is syntactically identical to the name in your file)
6. After the program runs to completion, check the file directory for a file named path_table.csv, this is where your results will be

Troubleshooting:

1. If the list of paths seems short or you notice a transition is not covered:  Check the syntax of your file and make sure that all state names appear the same throughout the file.  Column A should contain only current states, column B should contain only next states, each on their own line within the cell.
2. If there are states missing, make sure that the title in cell A1 is "ticket type"-Current State and the title in cell A2 is "ticket type"-Next States.
3. End states that have no next states they can reach should have "N/A" in the corresponding Next State cell.                               
4. If the output in path_table.csv looks odd and includes " , or \ characters, try converting your .csv file back to a generic excel file (.xlsx) and then convert back to a .csv again.
